\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename doc.info
@settitle NDL(vtransf) & Client 
@finalout
@setchapternewpage odd
@c %**end of header

@set EDITION 0.0.1 
@set VERSION 0.1 
@set UPDATED 10 Mar 2013

@ifinfo
This file documents the @code{NDL} library for DNS. 

Copyright (C) 2012 2013 S.meng.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.
@end ifinfo

@titlepage
@title NDL(vtransf) & Client
@subtitle ndl and client documentation
@subtitle Edition @value{EDITION}, for Hello Version @value{VERSION}
@subtitle @value{UPDATED}
@author by S.meng 

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 2012 2013 S.meng.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.
@end titlepage

@node Top, , , (content)

@ifinfo
This file documents the @code{NDL} library for DNS.
@end ifinfo

@menu
* Instructions::	How to use the doc? 
* Overview::		what is NDL?
* Sample::		Sample output from @code{client}.
* Invoking client::	How to run @code{client}.
* Problems::		Reporting bugs.
* Concept index::	Index of concepts.
@end menu

@node Instructions, Overview, , Top
@chapter How to read this documentation? 

@cindex the doc 
@cindex manual, introduce the project 
@cindex How to read? 
This document is divided into five chapters, you should start reading from the guide, 
so that you can quickly know where you fit read. The second section describes the outline
of this project, if you want to know this works, you can read this part first. But some 
people prefer to go to run the program to see the outcome of the trial. Have a perceptual
awareness, then you can look directly at the Sample and Invoking client, perhaps this is 
what you want. Last part is a message to all supported open source project or contributors.

@node Overview, Sample, Instructions, Top
@chapter NDL(vtransf) project and client 

@cindex introduce the project 
@cindex overview
This is a DNS technical side stuff, it called NDL means the @code{Ndl is Dns Library}, 
while the client is just a demo. NDL only two functions, because it is a system-level 
function, so it looks a little more complicated. In fact, it is very simple. These 
functions are @code{vtransf} and @code{oerrstr}. Obviously @code{vtransf} is the main function, and @code{oerrstr} is 
used to capture the error message. In order to explain more clearly for @code{vtransf}, I would 
like to give an example. Many people know the standard interface gethostbyname. 
In contrast with them, the primary difference is that @code{vtransf} is non-blocking I/O 
architecture (single-threaded), this is very important. The second @code{vtransf} not datagram 
parsing. Application-level design to the developers do it themselves, which is more flexible.

You can use the @code{vtransf} design of @code{gethostbyname, getv6hostbyname or getcnamebyname, 
getsoabyname ...}, a variety of functions, as long as you like or need. And superior. Because 
@code{vtransf} can be I/O multiplexing. @code{vtransf} pay more attention to the datagram assembly, 
distribution,communications infrastructure and RFC change. @code{vtransf} is @code{POSIX} standard function, 
so it can compile and run from any machine equipped with UNIX systems.

@node Sample, Invoking client, Overview, Top
@chapter Sample Output

@cindex sample
Here are some realistic examples of running libndl's demo @code{client}.

This is the output of the command @samp{client -h}:

@example
This is libndl's dome -- client, look up DNS original datagram.
Usage: client [-h] [-l] [-o owner] [-v]
  -h, help                  Get help, print a summary of the options
  -l, library               Output the version number of library
  -o, owner                 Input domain that you want to query 
  -v, version               Print the version number of client 
@end example

This is the output of the command @samp{client -l}:

@example
libNDL(vtransf) version 0.0.1
@end example

This is the output of the command @samp{client} or @samp{client -o www.ebay.com}, default to domain name @samp{www.google.com}:

@example
$ ./client
Dns: use nameserver 127.0.0.1
## Send query (32 bytes)
## Header:
>> id: 30328, opcode: QUERY, flags: rd;
>> QDCOUNT: 1, ANCOUNT: 0, NSCOUNT: 0, ARCOUNT: 0;
## Question:
>> owner: www.google.com, class: IN, type: A;
-- Send original datagram --
0000 76 77 01 00 00 01 00 00   00 00 00 00 03 77 77 77 
0010 06 67 6f 6f 67 6c 65 03   63 6f 6d 00 00 01 00 01

## Got answer (255 bytes);
......
......
......
@end example

This is the output of the command @samp{client -v}:

@example
client version 0.1
@end example

@node Invoking client, Problems, Sample, Top
@chapter Invoking @code{client}

@cindex invoking
@cindex version
@cindex options
@cindex usage
@cindex help
@cindex getting help

The format for running the @code{client} program is:

@example
client @var{option} @dots{}
@end example

@code{client} supports the following options:

@table @samp
@item help
@itemx -h
Print an help infomation describing the options and then exit.

@item version
@itemx -v
print the version number of @code{client} on the standard output and 
then exit.

@item owner 
@itemx -o domain 
@cindex owner 
@cindex name, IPv4 address 
print query infomation for domain on the standard output and then exit.

@item library 
@itemx -l 
@cindex library 
@cindex NDL 
The command meaning that you want to know the version number of @code{libndl} 
on the standard output and then exit.
@end table

@node Problems, Concept index, Invoking client, Top
@chapter Reporting Bugs

@cindex bugs
@cindex problems
If you find a bug whatever in @code{client} or @code{libndl}, please send 
electronic mail to @w{@samp{mengshi19860812@@gmail.com}}.  Include 
the version number, which you can find by running @w{@samp{client -v}} or 
@w{@samp{client -l}} to library version. Also include in your message 
the output that the program produced and the output you expected.@refill

If you have other questions, comments or suggestions about @code{client} or @code{libndl}, 
contact me via electronic mail to @w{@samp{mengshi19860812@@gmail.com}}. I will try 
to help you out and cordial communation with you.

@node Concept index, , Problems, Top
@unnumbered Concept index

@cindex tail recursion
@printindex cp

@shortcontents
@contents
@bye
